you've seen it the economy is in trouble
why is that the case well it's so
reliant on the consumer and right now
the consumer is saying I'm going to hold
off I'm going to wait and of course they
don't want that the credit card
companies visa and MasterCard they don't
want you to wait they want you to buy
today pay the minimum don't worry we'll
take care of it and now we are seeing
quite the opposite you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you I'm
going to look at what's going on in the
economy today and make you understand
what's actually happening you know you
can look at the news and you're going to
get of course all this bias but I think
it's really important to just get the
raw data so we could experience it for
ourselves let's begin here we have
household food Security in the United
States back um for 2022 numbers and it
was shocking to me to learn that 17
million homes households were food
insecure
they didn't have enough food 17 million
households and that's for the numbers
they know who knows how bad it could be
for those who are just barely just
barely maybe it's because of family
members helping them maybe it's you know
somebody else I have seen the stats from
many many major cities United States
Canada that the food bank usage is at
record highs so we know that there's a
problem a severe problem but this has
happened on the backs of real estate
prices at the highest they have ever
been basically on record there's no
question about that stock prices are
still despite correction are still near
all-time highs and yet the numbers like
this continue to pile up how do we make
sense of that well let's unfold this
story here we have us core pce prices uh
you know jump in the most in four months
as spending picks up and so we look at
this as a measure of what the Federal
Reserve likes to look at personal
consumption expenditure that's pce and
while you'll often see in the news when
they talk about inflation broadly that
is the
CPI Consumer Price Index when we look at
pce it's a little you know different but
from the you know what's important to
note is the pce that's the one that the
FED looks at and so they're going to use
that to decide whether they should be
you know going or going forward or
backwards or what have you so this is it
the federal reserve's preferred measure
of underlying inflation accelerated to a
four-month high consumer spending picked
up keeping the door open to another
interest rate hike in the months ahead
if you look at the banks themselves all
of the different analysts what they have
said essentially the vast majority
believe at this fed meeting there's
going to be no hike many believe at the
next one no hike either some say that in
December there's a hike who knows all I
know is that we have entered into a
period in which people have said never
going to happen and yet here we are I've
been talking about this for years
telling you of course at some point I
wrote about in my book number one that
at some point inflation increases and
they are going to increase interest
rates people have said no no no but of
course I stick to the principles and I
don't flip-flop and that is something
that we have seen over and over again
being so true it's that this is part of
a cycle it's just a cycle we just have
to recognize all the patterns that's
difficult to do when you're getting
information from the typical sources so
here we have it um just looking at it
all I'm trying to highlight here is that
the stuff that people buy that has gone
up considerably and that is never a good
thing right because people have less
disposable income as a result yeah you
know you can see what they say oh yeah
we're we're only doing this we're only
doing that they they try to tell us that
you know for the most part the consumer
is doing well but I would completely
disagree I mean I how else do I say that
would you say in general that the
consumer is doing well I mean based on
what metric based on what their
attitudes definitely not everywhere I go
I hear people talking about the prices
of stuff what stuff Services Goods
everything everything is up oh you want
to get that fixed oh yeah well the last
time you got it fixed uh it was this
price but now it's double uh okay but
the inflation rates at like
4% yeah only only in the world of the
the government and and the Federal
Reserve is inflation at 4% look here you
can see the personal consumption
expenditure
3.4
3.7 it's still elevated all you got to
know is there there's the chart 3.4
3.7 as far as I'm concerned what we can
see is that it's obviously not true it's
not accurate but it is still higher than
where they want it to be the whole 2%
thing personal savings rate has declined
as well so that little bump that they
experienced uh a little while back that
was actually an artificial bump due to
like some uh recalibrating that they do
all the time it's nonsense but the point
is anyway that it's down personal
savings are down what is personal
savings not like cash in the bank it's
actually how much money is left over and
so that is obviously declining rapidly
as people use more of their debt they're
using more credit cards than ever before
you're looking at mortgage payments at
the highest they've ever been for most
people you're seeing it at the same time
with student loans coming on right at
this moment obviously it's an impact and
car loans wow the car loans we are at a
record level delinquency for car loans
right here so that is clearly a big
issue now who's the issue with though
well it depends on who you ask
Republicans and independents are more
likely to believe that the economy is
getting worse Republicans 72% what about
Democrats though
32% right and so I guess it's based on
who they feel that they are siding with
and perhaps the news where do they get
their news from now I still have trouble
believing this today but over time I've
tried my best to understand that there
is massive bias of the Left Right
Paradigm in news I thought news was
unbiased I mean maybe I'm a little bit
naive but I thought you took the raw
data and then you broke it down and just
explained it in a way that people can
understand but as time has gone on I've
realized that somehow it's not about
that and it's about a blame game it's
about you know pointing fingers here and
there or trying to make
excuses instead of just looking at the
information and just explaining it for
the Layman right we don't know all these
things the average person so they just
say just explain it to me but instead
it's just nonsense it's theater it's
theater and that's what the media is
really really good at but I'd like to
know what you think about this as
well so through 2020 government stimulus
payments and curbed uh spending allowed
Americans to save more money than they
typically do so from 2019 to 20122 the
average American household saw their net
worth surge by
37% I'm not so sure about that but
anyway that's the stat High inflation
and high interest rates could continue
to impact consumers in 2023 cracks have
been showing household balance sheets
there's no question delinquency rates
they see that on both the auto loans the
credit cards as I've talked about and so
people do not have the spending that
they once did that is also mentioned
here in this Wall Street Journal article
the cost of financing a home has marched
higher since 2021 put in the average
30-year fixed mortgage rate you're
8% keeping money uh would be keeping
many would be buyers on the sidelines
plenty of Americans who locked in low
mortgage rates though have extra cash so
it depends on that and of course if
you're in the United States you get take
advantage of that but a lot of people
who locked in low rates in Canada
Australia other places their mortgage is
coming due because it works different
than the United States okay so they're
in big trouble let me tell you all right
those payments are going to be double
what they were before and those are on
variable which is large percentage of
them are already getting crushed by this
right now so they're tapping into the
equity in their homes now the good news
is that they have a lot of equity uh but
how much Equity can you possibly tap in
you're going to basically hurt yourself
long term when you do that I understand
emergency cases but that's what's going
on right here and now so people can
refinance they're doing Cash out
refinance and so on but you know that
the consumer is really taking a beating
what of course what is the solution well
the solution here would be to get
inflation down prices need to be more
reasonable when we talk about asset
prices they have to be more accessible
to the average household the average
house the average car the average
Lifestyle should be afforded by the
average salary
and do you think that's the case today
what if we had two average salaries with
the average Lifestyle home car not
affordable can you believe this this
hasn't happened before in the 1970s
rates were high inflation was high but
people could still afford stuff so what
we're experiencing now is an anomaly
historically this is when we get into
these Topsy Turvy environments that I
believe despite what others believe I
believe in the end who knows what
happens in the cycle in the medium term
but know that in the end we could
experience much more inflation I'm
talking about a lot more inflation and
why because the evaluation of the
currencies it's coming we' only seen the
beginning of that and what do they want
to do well there's a crisis so here
Universal basic income is working even
in red States they mentioned that but uh
the point is they are trying Universal
basic income and believe it or not it's
going to be rolled out more and more and
more is that a solution well why do they
even need Ubi well this is what they're
doing the robots the robots are coming
White Castle is rolling out fry cook
robots across the US now they got flippy
too not just flippy one but flippy two
and he's better he does the whole job
now now there's like no human
involvement at all then we have this
bricklaying robots can now build tennis
court sized walls in four hours an
interesting robot by the way but there
we have it so they are able to do simple
task but I actually saw that and the
instead of using mortar typical mortar
they're doing something else that's even
better than that apparently it's the
adhesive that they uses is actually
better and so for a lot of people I
think it's important right now to get
wise to these circumstances difficult
economy difficult circumstances solution
Ubi and uh the robots come in take a lot
of the jobs doesn't matter if you're
working in one place or another they're
they're trying their best AI robotics
we've got to be aware of this we got to
do our best as individuals okay what can
you do I'll show you in just a second
but my website is filled with financial
education totally free for you link is
in the description to check that out if
you appreciate that just hit that thumbs
up button when you do that you help me
out but you also tell everybody else out
there this is a good video is kind of
way of sharing without actually sharing
it okay hit that thumbs up I appreciate
it looking at the comment of the day I
just vacationed in Spain in the UK and
no one refused to take cash for
transactions once I had paid the airfare
some even said that they preferred it
governments will need a new crisis to
get everyone to accept the
cbdc
that's part of the Ubi you understand
crisis job situation issues piling up
everywhere oh well we can give Ubi but
how we going to get it out to everybody
it's an emergency how how we going to we
can't do the checks oh no it's not going
to be good oh I have a solution Central
Bank digital currency this is what
they're probably going to be doing and I
hope I hope that you get wise to this
and uh you know we could do our best try
to mitigate some of that if you want the
free financial education the link is in
the description below I want you to
check out Compass the first link right
there Compass click on that you got
these short videos break it down
everything you need to know you can
share that with other people that is a
really good resource for people I built
it for you okay check it out Link in the
description I'll see you tomorrow take
care